pages/community/github.md, before:

---
title: GitHub
sidebar_position: 2
---

## GitHub organisation members

We use GitHub to manage all of the code written for nf-core. It's a fantastic platform and provides a huge number of tools. We have a GitHub organisation called nf-core which anyone can join: drop us a note here or anywhere and we'll send you an invite.

It's not required to be a member of the nf-core GitHub organisation to contribute. However, members get the nf-core logo listed on their profile page and full write-access to all nf-core repositories.

```github_members
select * from community_github_members;
```

<AreaChart 
    data={github_members} 
    x=timestamp
    y=total_github_members
/>

## GitHub Contributors

Anybody can fork nf-core repositories and open a pull-request. Here we count how many different people have contributed at least one commit to an nf-core repository, or created or commented on an issue or pull-request.

### Commits and Issues

<!-- commits, commits and issues, issues area chart -->

```commits_over_time
select 
to_timestamp(timestamp) as timestamp,
sum(number_of_commits) over (order by timestamp) as number_of_commits,
from
nfcore_issues_stats.gh_commits
```

<AreaChart
    data={commits_over_time}
    x=timestamp
    y=number_of_commits
/>

Commit message:

feat: Add contributors over time

pages/community/github.md, after:

---
title: GitHub
sidebar_position: 2
---

## GitHub organisation members

We use GitHub to manage all of the code written for nf-core. It's a fantastic platform and provides a huge number of tools. We have a GitHub organisation called nf-core which anyone can join: drop us a note here or anywhere and we'll send you an invite.

It's not required to be a member of the nf-core GitHub organisation to contribute. However, members get the nf-core logo listed on their profile page and full write-access to all nf-core repositories.

```github_members
select * from community_github_members;
```

<AreaChart 
    data={github_members} 
    x=timestamp
    y=total_github_members
/>

## GitHub Contributors

Anybody can fork nf-core repositories and open a pull-request. Here we count how many different people have contributed at least one commit to an nf-core repository, or created or commented on an issue or pull-request.

```contributors_over_time
select 
timestamp,
sum(count(username)) over (order by timestamp) as number_of_contributors,
from
community_github_contributors
group by timestamp
```

<AreaChart
    data={contributors_over_time}
    x=timestamp
    y=number_of_contributors
/>



### Commits and Issues

<!-- commits, commits and issues, issues area chart -->

```commits_over_time
select 
to_timestamp(timestamp) as timestamp,
sum(number_of_commits) over (order by timestamp) as number_of_commits,
from
nfcore_issues_stats.gh_commits
```

<AreaChart
    data={commits_over_time}
    x=timestamp
    y=number_of_commits
/>
